Mojang just solved the debate over
putting sharpness or smite on your sword
because of their new updates. Let me
explain. People argue about whether your
main sword should be sharpness or smite
in single player because sharpness does
a little extra damage to everything,
letting you kill everything slightly
faster. But smite does a lot of extra
damage to undead mobs, letting you
one-shot most of them. And both
enchantments have their merits because
undead mobs make up a huge portion of
the mobs you'll encounter. So being able
to mow them down quickly is great, but
living mobs are often harder to kill.
But Mojang has made a few changes
recently that crown smite the winner.
First, they've been adding tons of new
undead mobs to encounter like the bogged
parched camel husk zombie nautilus and
zombie horse. And these undead mobs are
trickier to kill than most since some of
them have spears letting them move
really fast and do tons of damage. And
on top of that, Mojang just made it so
5% of zombies spawn with up to 100
health. So unless you want to hit a
zombie seven times with sharpness, use
smite.